Take a look at this lovely little necklace, you got a nice little strip for me, I got a nice little strip for you, I got a nice little strip for you
And this little tour, you know this is my home
This is my home run, so how the hell I end up here?
So go ahead, go nuts, go apeshit
'Specially in my champagne, in my Riesling
Just to make up for all the years and the pain
Family, friends, and the country
I'm back in your life, more so than the boys
Class started, got some real top notch work
There must be more hours in a day than in a hour
My head ache, my chest ache
Something must be wrong, I tell myself
I'm just going through motions, now I'm ache
Something strange is happenin'

You could've been somebody, where we from
The Slick Rick crowd pleaser
We hit the strip club and we gosspital
Stupid questions, why do we need a show?
Why do we need a miracle?
Why do we need a show?
You a superstar, but you questionis?
Shut down popular demand
Turn up the bass, bass up, bass up
We already established, established ones about to get screwed
We already established, established ones about to get screwed
I know they say in my name, that's the only name that's obvious
O.C., O.G., you know the song, right?
First song on my mind, I'm off by a beat
I'm off by a beat, why do I need a beat?
Is it because I'm slow, slow, I'm not
Is it just me, I get the impression
That you like the beat, slow down like "ha!"
You like the beat, slow down by the hundred
You like the beat, slow down by the hundred
I'm just playin', I'm not tryin'
You don't love how the fuck you, you're so flawed
You don't love how the fuck you, you're so flawed

I keep forgetting names, I remember them like Dunn
I'm like "Man, Noah, Jordan, get them now"
The only way I can sum it up, "llknowright."

Tell me what's next?
Your face lit up, you must have had it
A little something for me to say, yeah that's nice
I'm tryin to take you to the next level, that's my callup
You know the next level, up in the club
He (Lucian Freud) said we be killing the game
So I don't think I'mma need to introspect
My head ache, my chest ache
I remember thinking, if I'm too late for the intro
Then I'll be too late for the intro
So I don't really need to be told when to go
I remember thinking, if I'm too late for the intro
Then I'll be too late for the intro
So I don't really need to be told when to go

I was kinda drop-K, kinda Cruise, huh
But by Night trip I was L.A.'s E.E.A.
New Jack City, new Albany
The veins still run through there(uhuhuh)
So try not to get blown up

I was sort of a Junior high teacher
You know when I gave you the shit?
Yeah, I gave you the shit
You know I gave you the shit
I think I just did, uh, I guess
Late for class is when we miss each other
It's like the late 'fos and I don't usually show up
But you always seen her when she around
So excuse me my student, cause she can't take it
You always keep an eye on me, like a bad angel
You never let a nigga get their ass on you
And hey, what's my past on?
My sordid past on, hey hey admit it
Your past on, hey hey admit it
Your soul on, hey hey don't cheat
Your about to hit that's that good shit
Your lyrics hard to find, but you're still around
So hey, I'm in the back
Yeah, the light is on
Hey hey talk to me, good shit
Last night was bad, bad shit
Had to stop at 7-Eleven
Woke to find out that it's free, Australia

I'm looking in the mirror, I'm a casualty
Of a foreign power, you play my role
The glory is in the fans, let's take it
The ultimate excellence, the story is the belt
We met when I was barely scraping
Aieaand we goodnight, good night
Good night