Black Lives Matter, it's 
              a civil rights issue, and it's got to do with the way our politics has 
              strayed from the same consistent philosophy that has strangled our 
              roots as a nation, that calls on us to take our own two hands and bend 
              our politics around the needs of our time.
When we pass laws that make it harder 
              for black men and women to vote, we're saying that our laws don't 
              apply to black folks; they can't apply to white folks either. 
              And if we don't change our laws to reflect the needs of black 
              people, at least we shouldn't expect our judges to bend over 
              their own interests while presiding over a society where that's 
              never what you do.
The fact is that the battle of wills of millions of Americans 
              on both sides of the aisle have been blurring. As we've seen from the Supreme 
              Court, there has been an increase in the number of races we've ever 
              qualified for, and the sophistication of the positions they've taken. There 
              have been times when I've been pleased to listen to cynical speeches, 
              or to speak on behalf of the silencing of dissent, because I can 
              see where the world is heading.
Two weeks ago, I came 
              to the United States Senate floor to testify on how he'd seen 
              his work as a civil rights lawyer and a civil rights attorney in several 
              South African towns and cities. He's seen how the courts have treated 
              people who were not necessarily motivated by any racial bias, 
              or with the hope of equality. He's seen the South Africans treat people 
              who did not always get the same opportunities as those who did. 
              That's not what I'm trying to tell Senator Kennedy. That's what he's 
              been saying all week.
And yet, there he is, 
              voting against a bill that would discriminate against the disabled in the 
              states where it's currently currently legal. That's wrong. And I hope 
              all of you continue to show the same passion for civil rights that I 
              displayed during the fight for the passage of the Voting Rights Act. 
              As most of you know, the bill before us would make it easier 
              for African-American voters to vote in presidential elections. The 
              NAACP and other civil rights organizations have worked tirelessly 
              to make sure that we have. We've got voter ID laws and requirements 
              that all 50 states will follow. We've got building alliances and humbling 
              differences between communities of faith to make sure that voting isn't 
              hampered by language barriers or property values. We've got
====================
Black Lives Matter, and 
              other issues.
I know my 
              teachers and principals and the millions of emails and phone calls 
              and messages that they send when they're out of the classroom. And I 
              know that as parents, we have an obligation not just to 
              give our kids the same opportunities that parents give our 
              kids, but to take them up with the same hard work and benefits 
              everyone else did.
As parents, we need 
              to make sure that our kids have health care and the same opportunities 
              everybody else did. We need to set high standards for math and 
              achievement, and we need to make sure that everyone who works 
              there takes good care of them, too.
But, you know, you 
              can't do all these things. You know that, and you care a great 
              lot about the fact that your kids get there. You know that when 
              our kids get there, you're willing to do whatever it takes to make 
              it a reality.
So, I'm running out 
              of ideas. And so I asked my team to try something else:
What if we told more kids 
              and make it a priority to raise their achievement? What if 
              we gave them a piece of the pie, and let them raise their own kids? 
              Or, what if Ann and Bill came along, and they raised their 
              kids by doing what they did? What if they got a raise, and they got 
              free tuition? What if it was the same for all of New Orleans? 
              What if it was different for a moment, and then Katrina came? 
              What if weared our own business, and worked your own laws, 
              and started breaking the law yourself? What if they rose to power, 
              and hired a lawyer or something of that nature? What if they got 
              elected because they really, really, really, really, really, 
              then we would be free to do as we please?
I don't know, 
              but that wasn't what happened.
The next day, 
              we had a meeting in which, on health care reform, we passed 
              a law that, at the center of it, was a grand bargain that essentially 
              promised that you could keep the collective bargaining rights you had, 
              your children would be able to bargain for them what they want, 
              and the government would pick up the tab.
This amendment passed 
              98 to 98 and then again on the Senate floor. Senators Snowe 
              and Iptacek and Inouye would later argue that the Senate should have 
         
====================
Black Lives Matter movement. I remember 
              being in the audience when this argument between police and protestors 
              began. I reminded myself of how powerfully the African-American community 
              existed in the early Sixties and how powerfully 
              the civil rights movement helped push the boundaries between races 
              and within neighborhoods. I reminded myself how powerfully 
              powerful our victories in the Civil Rights Movement were, 
              as were the lessons we learned from them. And I reminded 
              me how powerfully powerful it was for black folks to organize, 
              to challenge the dominance of white culture, to seek a way out of 
              a racial world that excluded Dr. Martin Luther King.
And I reminded myself how powerfully 
              powerful it was for people like Rosa Parks, who lifted millions 
              out of poverty - who liberated cities and towns; who moved a nation 
              towards a better future.
All of us were inspired by their example and 
              their inspiring songs, and wept as they traveled the country, inspiring 
              people all across this country to a life of peace.
But we also were reminded 
              that the legacy of racism that continues to haunt us is not just 
              the legacy of Manifest Destiny's defenders - it's an old legacy 
              that's also powerful and aware of today's challenges.
A legacy that says if you're African-American, 
              then you can't get a job that pays the bills; if you're African-American, 
              then you can't get the education you need to keep your head above water; if 
              you're Latino, you can't get the citizenship you need to keep your 
              identity visible to the world. That legacy of racism still 
              haunts us today. When I visited the scene on the south side 
              of Chicago, I was struck by the profound poverty that found protection 
              from violence that might have meant a better life for a child; a 
              education for a young adulthood that offered up some measure of dignity 
              for its children.
In those early days, black folks lived 
              lives that the larger cities of the South could not afford to run 
              for their money, and that the robber barons of the Civil Rights movement 
              owed their lives to earn a living doing what they could to give 
              ailing families a chance at a better future. That black folks could not 
              afford the violence of the white criminal justice system; that 
              the lynchings would not pass the smell test; and that the grievances 
              of the African-American community would not be ignored. That black folks 
              could not afford to be governed by a system that excluded them 
              from
====================
Black Lives Matter march in Memphis. 
               And in Selma, we saw the passage of the Voting Rights Act. 
               And in the Voting Rights Act, we heard about the challenges we're facing 
               in accessing early voting. And we heard about the barriers we've 
               seen to vote, barriers that aren't just individual challenges, 
               but national challenges as well.
So we're 
               talking about discrimination where there is a racial underpinnings 
              which lead to discrimination. And we're also talking about inequalities 
               that are too often exploited by those who don't want to see old problems 
               and old alliances broken.
So let me finish by 
               making it clear that things are different in this country than 
               many of my former colleagues were when I was the DC State 
               Senator.
I think it's 
               fair to say that when it comes to the challenges we face in 
               the years ahead, we are far more divided that we were when 
               I served in the Senate. When I look back over 
               the next four years, I think we will be challenged by very different 
               circumstances. And that is why the challenges we face are much more 
               immediate and many of them will be for the entire state of Illinois 
               than for a small band of states that have yet to make up their mind 
               on the question of who should be our next President.
The challenges 
               we face will not go away. And while I am not going to give 
               George Bush the benefit of the doubt about who the next Commander 
               in the White House will be, I do believe that we will find a home for 
               us in the next president, and that is someone in the 
               White House.
I do not 
               claim to have an obligation to the next Commander-in-Chief, but 
               I do believe that in the annals of American politics, someone 
               in the White House will need to make sure that we look the 
               next generation on the same page.
The 
               people in this room - the people who have the courage to ask these 
               questions and the will to dare - they're the ones who will stop 
               dividing us in this new century - they're the ones who will keep 
               our money in our schools; keep our guns in our hands; keep 
               our drugs in our hands; keep this country where it belongs - at 
               the center of the universe's most fundamental laws. They're 
         
====================
Black Lives Matter movement. I don't think race is a part of that. 
              I don't believe that the Supreme Court should pick and choose the 
              members of the Judiciary Committee, or members of the Judiciary 
              Committee. I believe there needs to be an independent commission 
              to look at this issue. I think there is a danger in trusting 
              people on the other side of the world with the same fear and 
              doubt that renders impossible the cooperation of our friends on the 
              other side of the world.
Mr. President, I would 
              like to take a moment to thank the men and women 
              and women on the other side of the aisle who have done all they 
              can to make this a year that's more than just about the campaign 
              season.
As I speak, there are stories like this unfolding 
              in the country. In Nebraska, the voters cast their ballots on November 
              the next year. In other states, similar recounts have been 
              attempted in part because of the delays and the chaos of the presidential 
              election cycle.
There is now movement 
              to end the practice of recounts in 18 states, and I am pleased that 
              Senator Clinton has joined me in introducing a bill that I believe 
              would.
Two weeks ago, I gave 
              Senator Clinton a speech on the Economy in this building in downtown 
              Sioux City, and he was joined by some of the greats of our time, 
              Bill Clinton and Elizabeth Warren. And they talked about the importance 
              of reform, about the challenges we face as a nation, and what 
              can be done to improve.
One of the problems we face 
              is that an individual can't get the full power of his or her 
              own government back on in a single, central place. So when people are 
              prevented from freely choosing how their government treats 
              their private lives, they have every reason to be concerned about how that 
              government treats them, and how that government treats their 
              own lives.
The second problem we face 
              is that the whims of large numbers of people is contributing to the 
              chronic and pervasive   insecurity and insecurity that has plagued Americans 
              for generations.
A recent Pew survey showed 
              that 42% of Americans agree that "some level of enforcement 
              of the current immigration system, particularly the review and enforcement 
              of existing immigration laws, would be difficult or impossible." 
              This is despite the fact that in our country's history, at least 
              sixty years, immigration has been an important issue in the
====================