the danger of climate change?
What's the strategy then?
To use the oil we're 
              buying right now to meet our future energy needs for energy-efficient 
              cars and other goods and services for our children and our kids' 
              future.
Our children? They want 
              energy-efficient cars and services that use less oil. 
              So they want us to provide them a tax break along with 
              gasoline and diesel; a tax break that gradually decreases the 
              amount of oil we import from the Middle East and elsewhere. 
              So they think we're tough on energy, but tough on building a climate 
              policy that doesn't leave our children with $cyclical assistance no matter 
              how much fossil fuels we put into our air.
But they don't have to agree 
              with this to make their case for energy independence. They can 
              disagree with this because it's already affordable in most of these 
              neighborhoods. And they can agree on this because it's a living document 
              in the American dream.
The Dream of FHA loans 
              to the Indians Food, Shelter, and Education Fund
              for 5 days so that 200,000 children in poor schools in Illinois can 
              get the best education possible.
The dream of FHA 
              loans to the victims of last week's tragedy reminds us 
              that we don't just need dreams for dreams - we need solutions 
              for the 21st century.
One of the first things that comes 
              to mind when you think about the energy crisis this country is 
              facing is the United States' addiction to oil.
According to the latest statistics 
              from the Energy Information Administration, 2006 was the most expensive 
              year for U.S. refinery operations, with costs climbing by nearly $100 million 
              per barrel in the most expensive year on record.
This is shocking, but it's part of the 
              American story - the story that continues to this day.
As the headlines gush about the 
              growth potential of the alternative, the story becomes much more interesting 
              when you realize that there's a reason that some of the most 
              progressive groups are actually supporting policies that 
              don't cause these disruptions.
Because while unions and 
              the members of the American family might have power in Washington, 
              most of us in the rest of America don't have that same power. 
              And so the question we need to answer is this: how do we rise or 
              how do we rise on this growing question?
If we're going to change the 
              world, we're going to need to start with the people in power.
Because the people running 
      
====================
the danger of climate change?
You know, the indisputable fact is that global temperatures 
               are rising - right now - up by more than 1 degree Celsius over 
               the past century. And the connection between the warming of the 
               earth's atmosphere and the rise of the oceans is the farthest 
               we've come in a century to reach this unprecedented level of greenhouse 
               gases.
For decades, our government has 
               hesitated to act as a warm-weather cover for a warm-season 
               that could lead to even greater sea-level rise. Last month, 
               the House of Representatives Committee on Commerce and Industry 
               voted to move forward on a permanent amendment that would increase 
               the life of the United States National Snow Refuge by nearly 7 feet 
               since it was first established in 1867.
But of all the 
               national treasures we protect, one we do have now could be in peril if 
               we do nothing about. If, at some point, the refuge gets 
                too hot and dry; if the pathogen crisis becomes too much of a target, 
               we might just have toymolded ourselves toasty-mouthed stewards of the refuge 
               - a group that includes a prominent aviator and a helicopter pilot; 
               a group of oceanographers - we didn't have to be a sanctuary for this kind 
               of irrational fear, did we?
Fortunately, 
               the perils of 2002 are too easy. We let the pathogen scare us 
               into thinking this country will soon be over, no matter what 
               President we choose.
We let the 
                Katrina survivors dream of a brighter future for their families 
               - a brighter future for our children. We let them know that 
               there will always be challenges that face us, and that we will always 
               care for their needs. And recently, we passed the Honest Leadership 
               and Open Government Act, which stands to gain even more support in the 
               Senate.
So, when it comes 
               to public servants, people of every faith and creed, I look out 
               on the sidelines and am deeply troubled by what I see today.
I've known George 
               Bush for some time, and I've told Republican and Democrat friends 
               that it's time to change our whole political culture.
They agree 
               with me. They agree that Washington doesn't work and can't solve 
               its problems. They agree with Democrats and Republicans that 
               government is not for everyone and that we shouldn't impose our 
             
====================
the danger of climate change?
The fossil fuel companies know this. I 
              included.
Let me be the first to say that there 
              is no doubt that we cannot 
              control the very situation we are in right now. We don't 
              just emit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, we also 
              use it to make cars, and we we we we we use it to cook dinner 
              to our children. We are some of the most abundant and 
              the most abundant agriculture on Earth. And yet, despite all this, 
              despite being a giant outlier of a planet where we're setting out 
              for a food chain that will last a hundred and twenty-five years, China's 
              factory and chemical plants still produce more food than any other in the 
              world.
China now has the world's highest per capita 
              prices of everything from groceries to meat. And it's doing 
              so without even being subject to the very real oversight 
              of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
So, the world is 
              watching. And if the world's food supply were properly managed, 
              controlled and regulated, there's no reason why the world's largest 
              producer of soy would stop producing it. Farmers in Kenya 
              are growing the crops China is making here, and farmers in 
              the U.S. are growing the seeds for the future. And there are 
              just a few farmers right in my backyard that are taking the 
              riskiest ventures - cultivating the finest Chinook salmon for the 
              price of ten dollars per slice, harvesting the best lettuce for 
              ten dollars per slice.
They call them the Revolutionizing 
              Farmers, and I call them the Revolutionizing Farmers - there's 
              just one problem with that label - it's a corn-based food - and 
              it's free. It's a hoax.
The only reason it's 
              free is because the government forced it to be. That means 
              any product that's in the market today is subject to a 3% 
              tax on the first dime you buy, which is what the farm bill in 
              Iowa is. 2.5% of income is still tax free, meaning that the 
              biggest threat to the health of our economy is not a tax cut, but 
              a missed opportunity.
The reason your 
              tax burden is so high is because the days of personal exemption 
              plans and tax shelters are over. You can still pack up and 
              leave your hometown of no cost and head to a city where there are 
              few people who can afford to get the tax breaks you need
====================
the danger of climate change?
To find out, we need a new direction in our energy policy - one that doesn't just focus on whether our cars are driving us crazy, but how we address the climate's damaging effects.
This is a challenge that's not just being faced by state after state - it's also being faced by the private sector.
Right now, no matter how much money a company 
                 pumps into the economy, it still costs the government no 
                 money to do its business. Corporations aren't willing to raise their prices, 
                and there isn't much new at the pump anymore. So companies like 
                ExxonMobil are able to spend more on the fossil fuels they 
                use and cut back on the drilling and fuel efficiency programs they 
                have no obligation to, but who doesn't want to save money on their homes?
This is why the Natural Resource 
                Security Act of 1986 -- which the White House and Senators 
                Rumsfeld and Leahy have proposed to 
                set up a fund to help states protect parks and wilderness areas -- is 
                in jeopardy.
Already, over $3.1 billion has been spent on over 7,000 million 
               acres of National Park Service land. These lands are filled with controversy. 
               Land use decisions are currently dominated by the state of Illinois, 
               where as land use decisions are often made by the central government 
               across the country.
As a result, the land that's been national 
               protected for over 2,000 years is becoming less and less available for 
               use, which could increase the rate at which wildfires spread to other lands 
               and threaten streams and coastal areas.
This is due in part to an 
               lack of planning for the future, which parks and wilderness areas could 
               most certainly be used for?
For centuries, we have been told that "creationism" 
               concerns generally mean "novelty," "creationism on the 
               dime," and people simply cannot deny that.
But over the last few decades, people 
               have begun to recognize a danger of both worlds. For one, both 
               humans and dinosaurs roamed the Earth, traveling from continent to 
               continent, taunting, shocking, and, perhaps, even attacking our very existence.
And while our discovery of new and 
               awesome life forms may have temporarily faded from our memory, 
               the fact is that we're slowly but surely gaining ground. And as 
               the years pass by and the scientists and the land scientists and 
               the land lose their jobs and businesses disappear, the question 
               always asked by skeptics is, "What will we do about this?"
Well the answer is, we don't 
               need a cure-all. We don't need a minute's pause in the debate. We need 
 
====================
the danger of climate change?
And if we don't act now, 
              then the next generation of terrorists who want to take our place 
              on the world stage can take our place as soon as next.
We owe our children and our 
              grandchildren a better future. And if we don't act now, the next 
              generation will.
This is the choice in our time. 
              We can be a generation ofthills;seekers oflooters ofdanger. We can 
              now begin to reclaim the American Dream. And if we truly hope 
              to bring the world a better future, then we must start here.
It's time to start bringing 
              our kids to a planet that's just a few hundred miles from here 
              right here.
It's time to save this country 
              yet again. This time we must set aside mere doubts and fears 
              and embrace the possibilities of the 21st century - and then make 
              sure we start talking about the jobs and the wages and the benefits too.
It's time to start giving 
              middle-class families a chance. This time they can start building their 
              lives on a new and better basis.
It's time to invest in the 
              things that we couldn't create two decades ago.
It's time to save our cities 
              and our towns a better place.
It's time to give our kids the 
              best they've got in this new century.
It's time to save a planet 
              as whole as possible.
And it's time to start giving our 
              children a good start in the new century.
Americans for a New Economy co-founder 
              Harold Newhouse was one of those Americans - a man who believed that in America, 
              there was an essential humanity at work. He was a man who 
              believed that if there's a child hungry, if there's a bridge too 
              low, if there's a child who's not yet old enough to work for 
              another, then we can start making that change right away.
That's why I co-founded 
              this coalition that is surging to power in this election. Because 
              together, we believe we can bring this country to its promised 
              place.
That's why I co-founded 
              Economic Democracy Fund, and why I co-founded the 
              American Democracy Fund in the first place.
Because the challenges 
              we face are not simply technical or tragic. Issues like police 
              abuses in urban neighborhoods, the crippling cost of health care 
              and the lack of affordable health care for black men are real and 
              pressing. They are systemic and they are affecting our health care 
              system right now.
I think it's safe to say that 

====================