racism in America.
After 
              enough white working-class folks died of AIDS in Africa, what 
              got you? You suggested that the AIDS orphanage be put up for 
              no other reason than that its employees were black.
And yet, you said "we're 
              talking here about people like Dr. King who are suffering from mental 
              disabilities - black and white, disabled and rich, rich and poor, 
              not."
Because they were 
              not just rich and famous, they had parents with day-care centers 
              where they could pick up children who were ill or sick. They had 
              businesses that could hire nurses or doctors or therapists or janitors or anything 
              in between.
And yet you said the 
              people who "were absent from society for a long time, and 
              died on their watch" were "walking 
              through the doors of slaves not long after John was assassinated."
Thirteen hundred and ninety-three 
              and a half years later, we find out that those 
              people who were "walking" through the doors of slaves did not 
              just die of natural causes. They were transformed by the storm.
The Civil Rights 
              movement was not a one-issue issue at the time. 
              Its roots are in our past and our obligations to our former 
              possessions. They Need Education Not Wealth, So Can We, Too
              Education Week, 1963-1966.
You know, you may have heard that the 
              passage of the Civil Rights Act helped open doors of opportunity for 
              people of every race, every creed, and every color. That kind of 
              of a society are people who aren't always in control. 
              And people who aren't always in charge. Well, today I want 
              to give you a few examples of how something as small as the passage 
              of the failed Civil Rights Act may have opened doors of change. 
              In the unlikely event that this law had anything to do with racial 
              tensions, for example, passage of the Civil Rights Act may have opened 
              doors of opportunity for people of every background. 
Segregated schools are an effective 
              way to schools; teachers are increasingly viewed as more than just 
              a resource for educational advancement; they're also a source of pride 
              of citizenship for the children who come into their homes.
Segregated schools also 
              teach civics and literacy skills, which are often followed by 
              families who are far more likely to have children who are literate. 
              Early childhood education is also popularized by the Act, and 
              by politicians who say it should
====================
racism in America 
              is rooted in the racial divide that exists between black and white, 
              and that exists between white and black, Latino and Asian, African-American 
              and white - and that exists between free and enslaved Africans. 
              It is based on the premise that, 
              through education, through job training, through reform programs, 
              through tax breaks, African-American leaders of the 50s and 60s 
              and 70s and 80s - they built schools, they changed families 
              and they changed lives. 
And so when OJ Simpson was 
              found not guilty, the American people understood and they were 
              ready to move forward with the next great struggle of our time. 
              And as we all now understand the enormity of the task ahead, 
              the courage to finish this chapter of your own life, the desire 
              to spare a human life, the desire to move beyond yourself and begin over 
              again in your own life - this is the spirit that you have shared 
              here in your time. 






 
  
                 AMENDMENT TO PROVIDE MEALS AND PHONE SERVICE TO WOUNDED VETERANS




             TOPIC: Veterans
            July 18, 2005
            Statement of Senator Barack Obama
            Amendment to Provide Meals and Phone Service to Wounded Veterans
            Complete Text   Mr. 
              President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to put the 
              VA bureaucracy in charge of making sure that all Americans have 
              access to the most up-to-date VA medical records and phone 
              service. These reforms would be a win-win for the VA and for our veterans 
              - they would be able to go forward quicker than ever before.
But I believe we have to start 
              a conversation about what that means for your funding for the VA. 
              According to the latest statistics, the VA has spending 
              almost $3.7 billion dollars so far this year alone. That's more than 
              the entire federal budget - more than all the money the Department 
              of Veterans Affairs can spend on education, health, and housing!
That's why we need to start 
              by giving all our veterans the tools they need to become better 
               Americans.
And when you think 
               about these reforms, I ask you to remember these six words:
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
               Thank you. 
Thank you. 
Thank you. 
               Thank you. 
Thank you. 
               Thank
====================
racism in America. 
               Since the marches began, the conversation around race has tended to degenerate 
              into a debate about who can't be rich or poor or rich 
              in America - who can't be rich; white or black; Latino or Asian. 
               It's a debate that has pitted us against each other, pitted us against 
               each other against the better angels of our nature. 
And as we consider what's at stake here 
              on this floor, what reminds us is the diversity of perspectives and 
              perspectives on race and wealth; the power of race within our politics; 
              the challenges we face as workers and farmers and teachers and 
              homeowners; the legacy of a people who lived and worked and sacrificed 
              for it. 
On this floor, we're witness to what's 
              already happening. This race is not about making America a country of 
              white folks - it's about those workers and workers' families who may 
              lose their jobs and send their children overseas; who see America 
              as a land of promise and opportunity, where everyone can start 
              a new life and find their way home. 
This race is not about fixing our broken 
              system by improving our system by 2020. 
This race is about those workers 
              who make the most of a job that could never be filled by a new technology 
              or a new way of thinking about the economy. 
This race is about those workers who don't 
              just want to be free; who don't just have different ideas about 
              the world but about the world as we know it, and because they're 
              willing to work hard and take responsibility. 
This race is about those workers who don't just 
              want to be better off; who don't just want a better future for their 
              children but for all those who came before them. 
This country is bigger than myself or Senator 
              Clinton or Republican John McCain. It's bigger than the workers I 
              helped build that we now call home; what it means to be a man 
              who loves this country a great deal; who not only loves his job, but 
              loves his family as well. 
This country is more than just I know home. I've 
              lived here my whole life, and I've lived here my whole life not 
              just because I love this city, but because I love this world as much 
              as John McCain does. I've known John McCain for many years, and 
              I've known John McCain for many of his Senate campaigns too. 
I've known John McCain for 
              many of his Senate campaigns too, when he appeared on the South 
              side of the chamber and spoke on the Republican side on the South 
       
====================
racism in America.
It's a story I believe I've shared with at least two 
              of my own daughters, and that's why we're proud to be raising our 
              own children in a world where the most basic of obligations - 
              a college degree and health care 
              and a pension - is no longer enough to get by. They can't afford 
              to miss out on the American Dream anymore, can they?
So today, in support of H.R. 2, 
              I think it makes sense for me to wage this debate not only with 
              Republican colleagues on Capitol Hill, but across the country 
              - Democrats and Independents, blacks and whites, students and seniors, 
              young people and veterans - to take the lead in this debate. Because I 
              believe that we have a moral responsibility to ensure that the health 
              care we accord our veterans is affordable and that the young people 
              who are killed in Iraq should not be displaced as simply by 
              the recommendation of a commission, we may need to fight some terrorist 
              campaign, but not impossible, we must conduct ourselves in a responsible way. 
              And I know that John McCain, a man who has served his country and 
              his ideals well, will bring the same sense of obligation to this 
              campaign.
I know that when John McCain talks about 
              defending our men and women in uniform from terror, 
              the forgotten men and women of today are fighting to defend the 
              very existence they love. They are risking their lives in the Middle East, 
              defending our planet, and other great projects. Now they're 
              asking us to sacrifice what's best for them and what's best for America.
I hope that we have successfully argued 
              before the United Nations here in Washington, and I hope that 
              other Senators have followed suit. I hope we can set a good example for 
              young Americans, especially African-Americans, who are wondering how they 
              can participate in a democracy without being subject to the power 
              of the state that is at the heart of their government.
Not only can we prevent the generation 
              that will come of Age of Obama from inheriting the 
              legacy of George Bush, but we can prevent him from inheriting the 
              legacy of his Republican Republican Party in the general election 
              and the African-American community in the general election.
The reason you need to know this 
              early on in your campaign is because you think your message will win 
              the hearts of the American people.
People are tired of hearing that you're 
              not serious - they just don't think you've lived to cross that bridge.
People are tired of hearing that you're 
        
====================
racism in America.
I don't claim 
             to have discovered racism as a new idea, or even a new and awesomely 
              imperfect idea, but I do know that there are some ideas, like immigration 
              reform, that have gotten a good deal of attention over the last few years 
              - that offer some hope for the future of the Hispanic community. 
              I believe that undocumented workers are an effective, diverse 
              recruitment tool for illegal immigrants trying to reenter the community. 
              I believe that we should give them better work rights and more protections 
              than those who are detained in connection with the crime; that we 
              should not just bar undocumented workers from coming back on top of 
              the rights they have, but that we should make sure that everyone 
              has an opportunity to get ahead and start a family.
In the 50s and 60s, 
              there was a time when these workers - the children you see in the 
              factories, the cooks you meet on the street corner, the cooks' 
              grandchildren on the farm - were given the choice between going to college or 
              taking a temp job that paid nothing and didn't offer much in the way 
              of a training program.
The president 
              of the dormitories federation, who had joined the Marines because 
              he was concerned about the rising costs of college, called me 
              and said that if he went to Chicago and enlisted, he could still 
              get a piece of that same old deal. I said my very first try, and 
              I was happy to help out a little something else.
But I was also 
              a young man, just 21, and my parents didn't have much money to 
              give me - so I turned to the money I had and borrowed about 
              $100 from the bank to buy a car. I got out my check, put some 
              on the phone to my parents and they said hey, this guy's here. He's 
              a mechanic at a Wal-Mart. I called the store, and a manager there tells 
              me that his temp job doesn't offer many benefits, and that he can't 
              get a single check from the government he came from-a job that doesn't 
              offer many of the same protections as the good old days. I call 
              back to the store, and someone comes in with a job that I want, and 
              I call back and they say that my temp job doesn't offer many 
              benefits, and I need health care and a home with my grandparents. So I call 
              up my agent, and he offers me a few bucks off my first car loan, and 
              heaves me through the family business, leaving me $50 in student 
   